README.md

author: Kevin Walther

My code is separated into five main class files and a Python script to run the 
program. The class files define Token, Cell, ParseTreeNode, Spreadsheet, and ScannerParser 
objects. The Token objects are used store values at the leaves of the parse tree (e.g. NUM,
ID, and Special Characters) while the ParseTreeNode objects create the nodes of the
parse tree. The Spreadsheet is comprised of a Python Dictionary of Cell objects. 
Each Cell object can be of type Equation, Number, Text, or Empty. The equation 
Cells that are encountered in the input file are parsed using a recursive descent 
algorithm defined based on the grammer rules provided in the instructions for the 
assignment. This parser builds the parse tree, calculates the equation value, and 
bubbles this calculated value up to the root node of the parse tree. In addition, the 
controller and user lists of each cell are updated as the parse tree is constructed. 
After each parse tree (equation) cell is constructed, it is reduced to an abstract
syntax tree and printed to the screen for viewing. If the referenced controller cells 
get updated at any point during the parse, a recalculation of the values is performed
throughout the affected ASTs. The Scanner object holds the entire Spreadsheet (dictionary 
of Cell objects) along with some other state-ful variables used during the parse. The 
Scanner has methods forgetting and clearing the contents of a specific cell also. 

A file was generated by piping the program's output to a file. The file created for the 
HW5-Input.txt file is called HW5-Output.txt. Each output file first lists the abstract syntax 
trees for each cell containing a expression. This is followed by a printout of the spreadsheet.

This code can be run by calling the runScannerParser.py file. The code was tested on
Windows 7 using Python version 3.6.3


